so marcus rashford's mum mel has spoken
out for the first time
about the work her son has been doing
throughout the pandemic to help hungry
children she's been talking to sally
about the struggle she faced when she
was trying to feed her family
when marcus was growing up
[Music]
meet marcus and his mom mel
as a young single parent mel worked
round the clock
in a bid to keep food on the table for
the future staff
have you got a massage
[Music]
and if i didn't do that we just wouldn't
have been able to cook a pot of food
it's just a bit difficult so marcus is
only telling the story from how he sees
it from
and the words that he's been saying they
obviously come from the bottom of his
heart
sometimes it was really bad i'd rather
give the food to the kids than give it
to myself
sometimes i didn't get anything to eat
and they'd ask me if you had yours and
i'll say yeah but i didn't
sometimes we didn't even have a loaf of
bread in the house it's embarrassing to
say but we didn't
all them little struggles and sacrifices
that you made it helps you
appreciate everything like 10 times more
so i don't see it as a weakness because
i think in sport you have to have
something behind you that's pushing you
when you come from a place of of
struggle
and a place of pain a lot of the time it
switches and it becomes your
drive and motivation that is a struggle
that marcus rashford hasn't forgotten
throughout this year he's worked to
highlight the difficulties faced by
children growing up hungry
when marcus was 11 his mum had to make a
difficult decision
she asked the manchester united academy
to sign him
a year early he took him in digs i mean
when it's sad to say but he went in digs
at the age of 11
but it's the best thing that could have
happened to him i missed playing
football in the house
no i did because when i am when i moved
you have to um change the way you behave
because
you know probably weren't quite as
comfortable as i was at home
it wasn't easy but i just knew what
would happen if he's left out there on
the street
today is a special day for mel they're
traveling to fair share
the food charity marcus has been working
with
no way it's changed down here mark is
that it um
i see state that you nanny used to do i
know around the back of them
yeah that's what i've got tattooed on
hi there hello food from this depot will
be sent
to vulnerable families living nearby
do you have food going out all
throughout the day or yes every time
monday to friday mainly last year we
gave out 95
tons of food this september 339 tons
so you can see it's been massive
as his mum watching him load a car full
of breakfast stuff for other kids just
like
brilliant brilliant mates archer brings
tears to your eyes don't
and even with a bad back
just watch that back markers on your
head
but it's not just about marcus this new
building is being named
after mel for everything they've done
together
to help families in need start your own
um
your own trophy cabinet
[Laughter]
what's it like then to be in this
building that's named after you
after all that you and marcus have
achieved over the last several months
i'm overwhelmed and i don't know what to
say
but all i can say is thank you i think
i'm gonna cry
for us and my mum especially
we were concentrated so much on like the
people that we was
trying to help so the reaction and the
response to things
a lot of it just simply goes over our
heads because we're still
focused on on helping people and i think
we've
gained a massive understanding of
how the a struggle you know 10 or 15
years ago
compared to now has completely increased
and
that's why i think that she she doesn't
quite
um like know what to say in these
situations because she's
more about how people are actually
feeling and
you know how we've helped him in that
way and um
everything else sort of goes over our
heads
can i just do one with marcus
no escaping the fight that is one of the
the great stories that have come out yes
of this period of time isn't it
a lot of people are taking so much
inspiration and a very very
proud mum marcus rashford feeding
britain's children is on bbc one on
monday
at seven o'clock see the headlines as
they
happen and watch bbc news live in the
app and get the full story with bbc dot
co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest
with bbc news